ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms...
This is the 2012
Abby Lee Dance Company concert.
You're getting thrown
to the wolves, woman.
They're gonna chew you up
and spit you out.
Just be prepared.
-You left.
-So we left. That's right.
You always have excuses
why your kids get what they get.
Maddie, I asked to do a solo.
You said no.
I'm giving this part to Chloe.
You need AA meeting.
Now you need to go
and see a therapist.
You're a (bleep) liar.
ABBY: Our junior winner
is Miss Maddie Ziegler.
(cheering)
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
-She's allowed to dance.
-Yay!
But she's not
allowed to do tricks.
Okay.
Just when I thought
it couldn't get any crazier...
We're here to see Abby.
...it got crazier.
-You're Kaya.
-I'm Kaya. This is Nicaya.
What are all the girls looking at?
CHRISTI: You don't just get to walk in
and be on a competition team.
So far, I have just walked in.
KELLY: Abby,
just tell us what you're doing.
Is Paige dancing
in the dance or not?
ABBY: If she's injured,
she shouldn't be on stage.
KELLY: I'm done!
(door slams)
KELLY: (bleep) my kid!
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Livin' on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
Come on, girls!
Let's go!
Come on.
Congratulations
on a successful dance concert.
(applause)
ABBY: All of your performances
were amazing.
You showed the entire
city of Pittsburgh
why we are ranked
nationally in the country
as one of the top dance studios.
The dance concert
was a smashing success.
I thought the kids
were outstanding
from beginning to end.
But keep in mind,
this is the road to nationals.
This is where it gets tough,
because we will be
traveling to California
to go to the iHollywood competition.
(cheering)
ABBY: This competition is a big deal.
And that's why it's important
on our road to nationals.
I want to put my little kids
from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
up against the big guns
and see what happens.
At the bottom of the pyramid,
I have Paige.
You couldn't do
too much with the boot.
I understand that.
I want it to heal.
You were supposed to see
a doctor at four weeks.
She's going this week.
So let's hope, Paige,
that you're going to be dancing again.
Next,
Brooke.
Brooke, the hip hop dance
really wasn't your thing.
Next...
Mackenzie.
Kenzie, you went out there
and you looked
just like the big girls.
However, I thought
the hip hop choreography
was a bit over your head.
Moving up the pyramid,
I have Nia.
You received the award
for the most improved student,
and that is something
to be very proud of.
However, like I've said before,
do not rest on your laurels.
Next,
Chloe...
Chloe, "Trapped,"
you did a great job in the role.
And at the top
of the pyramid is Maddie.
Maddie, you're on top of the pyramid
because you won the scholarship
in your age division.
(cheering)
Kendall, you can see
you're not on the pyramid yet.
Keep working, keep trying,
and you might get on this team.
I think Abby's just
playing games with me.
She is torturing me
and she's torturing Kendall.
Mackenzie, you have a solo.
You better do the whole number.
Nia, you also have a solo.
(applause)
Now, I have one more
solo to give out.
Who wants it?
Who thinks they could do it?
It's going to Chloe.
I picked Chloe
to do the solo this week
because I still can't forget about Maddie
and Melissa turning down a solo.
Just remember, I can give the solo,
and I can taketh away.
Everybody is in the group routine.
Kendall, I am inviting you
to travel to California with us
to participate
in the group number.
(applause)
You are dismissed.
Spread apart.
We have lots of work to do.
(upbeat music playing)
One, two...
You know, Abby put Paige
in this group dance.
I hope her foot gets cleared.
-When's your appointment?
-My appointment's tomorrow.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: The group routine
that we're doing is entitled,
"I Can See the Kite Flying."
Now, this piece is very important
to the Abby Lee Dance Company.
It's by the same author
that wrote "Where Have
All the Children Gone."
And people recognize that
all over the place.
They ask me
all the time about the number.
So this has
the same dark undertones.
And the kids are actually
in an insane asylum.
And you see them rocking
and fidgeting throughout the piece.
I'm excited about it.
I love it.
I think this could be
another big winner.
This is quick, and quick,
and step, together.
You're rushing that.
BROOKE: "I See the Kite Flying"
is a really creepy number.
We're all, like, mental patients.
We see a kite, but we don't know
if we actually see it.
It's like in our head, or--
I'm so confused.
I don't know.
I always told you,
Abby does weird well.
-So the weirder the better.
-Yeah, it'll be spectacular.
No one in LA will be doing
anything like this.
-I don't think so either.
-No.
ABBY: Hey.
There's no getting out
of this group, so learn it.
GIANNA: Two, three, four, five.
Seven.
(upbeat music playing)
Hi, can I help you guys?
This is Nicaya.
We're here to see Abby.
-Oh, yeah.
-She's expecting us.
-This is Nicaya.
-Hi, nice to meet you, sweetie.
We're looking
for a new studio to compete.
-ABBY: Hi.
-Hi.
-Hello.
-ABBY: Hi, how you doing?
I was approached by Kaya
and her daughter Nicaya
after our dance concert.
I had no idea who the woman was.
But it turns out she's from St. Louis
from a very reputable teacher,
a colleague of mine.
So I'm going to check the kid out.
That's the least I could do.
-You're Kaya.
-I'm Kaya. This is Nicaya.
Nicaya, hi.
What are all the girls looking at?
There's someone here?
She's inviting someone in.
Do you want to get your shoes
and your street clothes off?
And I'm going to check her
out a little bit.
If you want to go up
and sit with the moms,
you're more than welcome to.
All right.
ABBY: I'm always looking to make
my competition team stronger.
Maybe this kid
Nicaya and her mom
are just what my team
needs before nationals.
There's certainly nothing
like a surprise or two
to wake everybody up.
-Hi.
-KAYA: Hello.
-Hi, how are you?
-I'm fine.
-HOLLY: Good.
-I'm Melissa.
-What's your name?
-I'm Kaya.
-Kaya, pretty name. Melissa.
-Hi, I'm Holly. Nice to meet you.
-Hi, Holly.
-I'm Kelly.
-Kelly.
-Christi.
I'm Jill.
-So where are you from?
-I'm from St. Louis.
Oh, okay.
You moved here?
-Yeah.
-MOMS: Oh, okay.
KELLY: I don't know why
Abby constantly insists
on bringing new people in.
It's bad enough when
she brings people in from the studio
that we know and have danced with.
Now she's bringing
a stranger in.
I just think it's crazy.
MELISSA: So what did you think
of our dance concert?
I mean, they're really,
really talented,
I mean, as far as
technique goes.
But as far as entertaining,
I don't think it was really entertaining.
-It didn't have a lot of personal--
-Really? (gasps)
The whole show?
CHLOE: So the new mom
comes upstairs,
and she sits herself down,
and she seems a little opinionated,
to say the least.
MELISSA: I think our kids
are fabulous on stage.
-I mean, I have to--
-KAYA: I think they are too.
I wouldn't have brought her
here if I didn't think
you had fabulous dancers.
I just think that they could use
a little more personality,
a little more diva-tude,
and she has that.
Diva-tude is
just when you're born with it,
when you just know you have it.
No amount of technique
or any type of training gives you that.
I didn't think any
of Abby's dancers had that.
-Diva-tude?
-KAYA: Yeah, that's what I call it.
MELISSA:
What does your jacket say?
Black Patsy.
I love that name.
It's really pretty.
ABBY: You guys keep working.
Get that down pat.
Come on over here to the bar.
Let me see fifth position, tendu.
And let me see a ronde de jambe.
I asked Nicaya to execute
a few ballet steps.
I want to see
if she has a foundation,
if she knows her terminology.
And can you spell
ronde de jambe?
You have to know
the names of everything.
We're really
into terminology here.
MADDIE: It's good that girls
want to tryout for our team.
But I don't really want
any a new member right now
because I'm perfectly fine
with all my friends.
Do you do any acrobatics
or gymnastics?
-NICAYA: No.
-ABBY: None?
None.
Now I'm beginning
to wonder about this girl.
Is she for real?
Is she an advanced student
or is she just a recreation student
that goes once a week
whose mother's trying to get her
onto a competition team?
Second, second.
She's gonna audition or...
KAYA: I think she should
just choreographing a routine
and just put her in it.
Because her testing to see
how flexible she is, is not really...
There's a lot of other kids
who want to dance on this team,
so I don't know why
she would just get to walk in
and be on it, when there's
other kids who have had
-to go through auditions.
-Other kids don't have
a resume like hers.
So I'm gonna call
your mom down, okie doke?
Oh, Abby wants me
to come down.
-KELLY: Ha. Good luck!
-CHRISTI: Good luck.
I ain't scared of her.
JILL: God, she's a loose can--
you never know what's coming
-out of her mouth...
-CHLOE: That's true.
-JILL: ...no matter how nice, how mean.
-Are you serious?
Your recital was boring
and all these kids
need help to perform.
You're not gonna work
on this team, girlfriend.
She knows zero terminology.
My kids are the whole package,
not just little bits and pieces.
When my kids leave here,
they have a career,
a livelihood, forever.
KAYA: I don't think
that these spelling tests
and all this other stupid dance
terminology is relevant.
What I personally
want Abby to do
is stick my daughter's
damn dance CD in there
and watch her dance.
You're the professional.
You've been doing this all this time.
You create stars, so why would
I question what you're saying?
Yay!
Hallelujah!
-We have a winner. Yay!
-Don't just disguise her all the way.
ABBY: Can you
come back tomorrow?
-NICAYA: Yes.
-ABBY: So come back,
bring her in tomorrow.
I'll have more time.
JILL: I just heard her say.
CHRISTI: I heard her say
come back tomorrow.
But why?
You don't get to just come
and be on the team.
Our girls are two weeks
from nationals.
Why Abby would ever consider
adding a new girl to the team
right now is beyond me.
That does not make
any kind of sense whatsoever.
Just when I thought
it couldn't get any crazier,
it got crazier.
So she wanted to know
if you could spell ronde de jambe,
if you could spell
dance terminology.
What the hell does that have
to do with dancing?
She goes, do ronde de jambe.
Now, can you spell
ronde de jambe?
I go, no.
That is (bleep),
and she knows that.
She doesn't want
to give you a chance
because I meant what I said.
Her dancers have no personality.
What do you have on now?
A title jacket--so what
difference does it make?
We're gonna play her game.
We're gonna go home tonight,
we're gonna learn this terminology.
She's gonna learn how to spell
all these stupid ass dance terms,
and we're gonna come back tomorrow
and play the game
Abby wants to play.
(upbeat music playing)
♪ If you take my hand ♪
♪ You're all I'll ever need ♪
♪ We can dance out in the sand ♪
♪ Watch a sunset by the sea ♪
"Summer Love Song"
is about the summer and parties
and just being out of school.
And I wrote it
because I love all those things.
So I'm going to put a recording
of me singing on the internet
and see how many, like,
hits and views it gets.
♪ Spin that record
round and round ♪
♪ Because I can't get enough
of that summer sound ♪
PAIGE: I'm gonna be
Brooke's backup singer.
♪ Turn the bass way up
and boom it, yeah ♪
Look, you already got a hit...
Oh, my God.
...in, like, the two seconds
you just posted it.
Yeah.
(upbeat music playing)
Hi, Nia.
Hi.
-How you doing?
-Hello.
-Hi, girls.
-GIRLS: Hello.
PAIGE: Mom, wonder
if that girl's coming today.
JILL: If I had to make a guess,
I'd say, uh-huh.
I can't believe
she had that on her shirt.
-It said Black Patsy.
-It said Black Patsy, AKA--
I'm White Christie.
KELLY: You're Black Holly.
HOLLY: Can you imagine?
Like, what is she talking about?
-I'm like, Patsy.
-CHRISTI: Black Patsy.
GIRLS: Hi.
HOLLY: Hi.
How are you?
-JILL: Come in.
-KELLY: Hi.
KAYA: Excuse me.
KELLY: Mm-hmm.
HOLLY: When Kaya arrives,
there's a tension that's evident
from the moment she steps foot
into the room.
What do you want
the girls to call you?
My nickname is Nini.
JILL: Oh, they call you Nini?
-KAYA: Mm-hmm.
-MADDIE: I'll call you Laquifa now.
(laughter)
GIRLS: (singing) ♪ Laquifa, ooh ♪
HOLLY: We don't know Kaya,
and we're trying to figure out
who Kaya is.
Come on, girls.
Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
Five, six, seven, go.
Five, six, seven, eight.
God, I hope Paige
gets cleared today.
Because I think
it's going to take her a week or so
to get used
to just walking on her foot.
I think Paige is nervous.
I think she's afraid
that the doctor's gonna tell her,
you know, we need to wait
another two weeks just to be sure.
Go, two, three, four, drop.
So where are you
going for nationals?
-We don't know.
-Well, she hasn't told us.
How do you have
a life outside of dance
if you have no idea
what you're doing in four days?
-This is our life.
-We devote it to these kids.
You devote your time here.
This is your life.
Do any of you work?
-No.
-I used to work.
I owned a business.
I had to sell it.
-What do you have nannies at home?
-CHRISTI: No.
Just really good
husbands who pick up--
-Exactly.
-JILL: So you're a single mom?
-JILL: Yes, I am.
-With four kids?
-Yep.
-Wow.
-It's a team effort.
-Yeah, well, our relationship ended
-because of dance.
-Oh, really? Lovely.
Your husband
didn't support dance?
I didn't have a husband.
I had a wife.
Hmm.
It's like you could hear
a pin drop in the room,
like they had never,
ever heard of anybody
being a lesbian before.
So what would you like us
to call you?
CHRISTI: Because we've been
calling you Patsy.
-KAYA: Really?
-Yes.
Well, you call yourself Patsy.
-The Black Pasty.
-CHRISTI: I know.
-We were calling you Black Patsy.
-I want to know what that means.
-You know who Patsy Ramsey is?
-Yeah.
-KAYA: The crazy stage mom.
-KELLY: That's you.
KAYA: All dance moms
have an inner Patsy.
KELLY: Are you really proud of that,
that that's your nickname.
Because like, I certainly
wouldn't want to be compared
to Patsy Ramsey.
(laughter)
ABBY: Five, six, seven, eight, one.
-KELLY: Abby?
-ABBY: Yes.
Excuse me.
Can I get Paige?
It's time
for her doctor's appointment.
Go ahead, go.
Good luck.
See ya.
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ It was gonna be... ♪
ABBY: Stretch your feet.
Feet.
Sloppy feet.
The arms in second.
Chloe's solo, it's called
"Glitz and glamour."
I needed something
to represent new Hollywood,
the piercings, the tattoos,
somebody that would stab
your eyeballs out
and step right over you to get ahead.
That's Chloe.
This is the road to nationals.
We're going to iHollywood.
All those kids on the West Coast
are gonna be there.
You have the target
on your back.
(upbeat music playing)
I don't want to hear
your feet hit the ground.
Play.
What did the doctor said?
KELLY: She got cleared.
She's allowed to dance.
Yay!
But she's not allowed
to do tricks for two more weeks.
Okay.
KELLY: He said to do
a very limited,
you know, not to overwork it.
-Okay.
-KELLY: So...
ABBY: Paige can be
in the number.
But is she gonna be full out?
I don't know.
And I want to win.
-Hi.
-KAYA: Hello.
ABBY: I want to get you
to fill this paperwork out.
-Okay.
-Okay?
So I was thinking,
well, maybe she could jump in
and take Paige's spot.
But now Paige came back
from the doctor today and said,
hey, I'm allowed to dance.
(exhales) But she's already
been there.
She's learned all of the routine.
I mean, you're taking
a chance on Paige
because she just got over
an injury, so it's kind of iffy.
No, I'm taking
a chance on Paige
because she's been here
since she's three years of.
KAYA: Paige has
a boot on her foot.
Even once the boot
comes off her foot,
she won't be able to dance up
to par with the rest of the team
because she's not really
picking up the choreography.
And Kaya already knows it.
There's no reason
that she shouldn't replace her
just for this number.
Give her a chance.
Let her compete with you guys.
Let her on the team.
Usually, when you walk
into the studio,
you have to be here for a year
before you even audition.
But what would it take for me
to show you
how bad I want her on this team
and how bad
she wants to be on the team?
If I don't put her in this number
and she's just a swing,
are you still gonna go?
Yes, we will.
ABBY: Kaya is standing
right in front of me,
telling me she'll do
whatever it takes to get her daughter
on this competition team.
Well, hey,
we're going to California.
I might just invite
the kid to go.
All right, you better know it.
You might get put on the spot.
-Okay.
-ABBY: All right, goodnight.
-KAYA: Okay, thank you.
-NICAYA: Thank you.
CHRISTI: Patsy invites
all the moms to lunch,
because, well, she wants
to get to know us better.
And frankly, I'd like
to get to know her better.
You had a boyfriend
and you moved out?
-Oh, a girlfriend.
-Yes.
MELISSA: Oh.
What made you go
from a man to a woman?
KAYA: I think my gaydar
kind of picked up
a little vibe off of Melissa.
She was a little too friendly to me.
Sorry, I'm just curious.
Okay, so what do you guys
think about me so far?
KELLY: Well, with your AKA
of being Black Patsy,
like, you're crazy.
-Why would that make me crazy?
-KELLY: Crazy dance mom.
All of you
are crazy dance moms.
I'm not that crazy.
So since you're kind
of in my position
trying to get your child on the team,
what does that take?
Are you crazy?
You think I'm gonna tell you
how to get your daughter on the team
when I can't even get
my own daughter on the team?
You just waltzed in
and threw your kid in the room.
And you don't just get to walk in
and be on a competition team.
MELISSA: You should see our contract.
So far I have just walked in.
CHRISTI: We have invested
our time, our lives, our energy,
and our efforts in this.
It just is very unnerving
that you think like,
oh, my daughter's just as good.
Are you coming to LA with us?
I don't know
if I'm going to LA or not.
HOLLY: It's a bizarre situation.
This is a bizarre lunch.
We're not in a very good place.
Who are you?
All we know is that it says
Black Patsy on a jacket
and you're Nicaya's mom.
KAYA: The moms can say
whatever the hell they want to say
about me.
I'm not here for them.
I'm here for my daughter.
I don't have any feelings
towards them.
I don't give a damn
what they feel about me.
It's all about Nicaya.
ABBY: Solos this week are vital.
I want to see who is strong enough
mentally and physically
to win at nationals.
Stomach, use your stomach.
Up.
That knee was so bent.
Arabesque,
straighten that knee, Nia.
Come on.
Nia's solo this week,
it's a '20s scat,
inspired by Josephine Baker.
There's no vocals,
so her timing must be impeccable.
This is a big challenge for Nia.
HOLLY: Josephine Baker
could shake.
She was like
the Beyoncé of the time.
Oh, my God, and Nia's
the new Beyoncé upcoming.
-HOLLY: Oh, yeah. (laughs)
-CHRISTI: That's Nia fierce.
Left and around.
CHRISTI: Oh, my eyes, my eyes!
You know, there's something
when you see Abby get up and gyrate.
It's...
It's not a pretty sight.
First she wanted Holly
to paddle her.
-Now she's shaking it in our faces.
-I know.
SINGER: ♪ One more boring
minute of my life ♪
♪ It's like I'm stuck here in a maze now ♪
One and a two, three and a four,
five and a six, seven, eight.
Kenzie will be doing
a solo this week.
It's entitled "Hollywood."
She really needs
to stay on the music.
That's what
we're working on this week.
You tell me
what this dance is about.
The Walk of Fame on...
in Hollywood.
ABBY: Yes, all right.
I love my solo this week
because my solo's called "Hollywood,"
and I love Hollywood.
Spread apart.
Let's go.
This piece is very important
to the Abby Lee Dance Company.
I'm excited about it.
I love it.
I think this could be a winner.
You move out of there
for right now.
All right, let's go.
Get on the line.
SINGER: ♪ My kite was as high ♪
♪ As the rope would let it go ♪
ABBY: Nicaya's been there
every minute.
So I want to see
what the group looks like.
Nicaya, stand in Paige's spot.
That's it.
All right, let me see
you out, you in.
Go.
KELLY: I'm watching rehearsal,
and it's like Abby's playing game.
Paige will do the dance one time,
and then Nicaya does it
the next time.
Please tell me
who is on the team here.
That's her turning foot
that's hurt.
Oh.
It's her left foot. Look, it
doesn't point like the right foot.
All right, you're both boring,
boring, boring.
PAIGE: My foot's really
bothering me in rehearsal,
so I just hope Miss Abby
let's me take it easy.
KELLY: Hey, peanut.
How's your foot?
HOLLY: Oh, I'm so sorry.
-MELISSA: Is your foot okay?
-What's the matter?
It kinda hurts whenever I like,
step on it and do the kick.
You need to say, Miss Abby,
it hurts when I step on it and fan kick.
Can I just mark that
until I'm on stage?
She will say yes.
This is your first day
of not having a cast on your foot.
Paige has waited for four weeks
to get this boot off of her foot.
And Abby keeps pulling her
to put someone else in the dance.
ABBY: All right, ladies,
I want you all to know that Paige
just came to me and said,
can she mark the pancake
because it hurts
her supporting foot.
I'm just letting Paige
sit out during rehearsal
because her foot
still bothering her.
I'm not replacing her.
But if that foot still hurts
come competition time, I will.
The show must go on.
And it's gonna happen,
no matter who's out there dancing.
If she's injured,
she shouldn't be on stage.
She should save it
till she's ready.
KELLY: One part of me
wants to go down there
and just knock somebody out.
So I excused myself.
I'm done!
(door slams)
KELLY: (bleep) my kid!
ABBY: Once again,
Kelly overreacts
and throws a hissy fit.
Well, you know what, Kelly?
The reason I keep
bringing new moms
and new kids into the studio
is because of behavior like yours.
I'm sick of it.
Kaya, if you weren't here
and Nicaya wasn't here,
this whole issue
would not exist.
CHRISTI: I think where it started...
-Of course it does.
-...was that Abby was choosing
between Nicaya and Paige.
Her mom was sitting there saying
she don't think she's ready
to go out there and dance yet.
Paige is still hurt.
She was cleared by the doctor.
Are you a medical doctor?
KAYA: What the hell
is the problem if one more kid is added.
You got the wrong mama this time
'cause I don't back down to nobody.
-You don't scared me.
-Well, maybe you found the wrong mama.
I ain't found
the wrong (bleep).
None of--y'all don't move me.
But the point is, is that
Paige is either gonna dance
or Nini's gonna dance.
-She said she needed to rest it.
-KAYA: Okay,
I'm not gonna give y'all the--
if Abby says
she's gonna do this number,
we're gonna be
in LA doing a number.
And I don't have
to answer to any of y'all.
I don't care.
ABBY: Kelly storming
out of the studio
and the moms upstairs
screaming at each other,
I decided something
needed to be done.
So I called them all downstairs
to straighten this mess out.
I'm sorry.
I think it's ridiculous.
JILL: No, I think
it's ridiculous too.
ABBY: I have a kid
that I don't even know
that's from another studio
that moved here.
I have a kid that's hurt.
I'm liable ladies.
This is a business.
I want Nicaya to take out
Brokeback Brooke
and Peg Leg Paige
just to shut Kelly up
because she talks so much (bleep).
I just want to prove to her
that her daughters
are not all that she thinks they are.
She's upset because she said
nobody's dancing,
the routine looks stupid,
and her daughter
-is always in the back burner.
-No.
But I don't like them blaming
and saying because Nicaya walked in--
Between Paige and a student
that isn't even your student,
-that's what her problem was.
-She's not choosing anything.
But it's up to Abby's discretion,
not yours.
All y'all are full of crap,
so I don't care.
JILL: I'm not doing this.
You can have one another.
-KAYA: 'Cause you're (bleep).
-I'm not doing this.
KAYA: You are.
We don't know
what's going on with the number.
This is chaos.
So considering the behavior
of these mothers,
you told me that you were
ready to go to California,
I think you should go.
I am not making you a promise
that your daughter is in this.
So don't get there
and start acting like that.
All right. Take care.
I asked Nicaya's mother
to go to California with us.
She's all excited.
But if she opens
her mouth again, look out.
(pensive music playing)
ABBY: We've just arrived
at iHollywood,
and I am so excited to be here.
Coming from 3,000 miles
across the country
to compete against all these
amazing studios in California
is really an opportunity
of a lifetime.
So should I be doing her
hair and makeup? Or no?
Um... you know what?
I have been so busy, I haven't
even given it a second thought.
Before I could even make
a decision about Nicaya dancing
in this group number,
I need to speak with Kelly.
She stormed out
of the studio yesterday.
I don't know
what's going on with her.
And I want to hear it
from the horse's mouth.
Tell me what really
was going on yesterday.
Paige is telling me that,
my foot still hurts
-and da-da-da, da-da-da.
-Yeah.
But I didn't come
all the way to California
to go out there and have her
marking a number on stage.
She's not gonna mark it on stage.
That's why she want--
-She has to do it full out.
-Yeah,
that's why she wanted
to mark it in practice,
so it wasn't hurting on stage.
ABBY: That I understand.
I just don't understand
what's going on.
Why is there always
these fireworks?
I have no idea.
I didn't have
a firework yesterday.
KAYA: That is a lie.
That's a lie.
You were upstairs
crying and having a fit
and cussing and going off.
Because you kept saying,
I don't want to go all the way to LA
-and her not be in the number.
-KELLY: Excuse me.
Was I upstairs crying, cussing,
doing anything yesterday?
ABBY: I know something
fishy is up with Kelly.
I know that she left rehearsal
because she was upset
thinking that Nicaya
was going to replace Paige.
Take your new outsider
and put her in and give her a chance.
Don't give anybody
on your team a chance.
Chloe, we got to run
this number and go.
All of this is taking time
away from your solo.
All of this madness
is going on in the dressing room,
and I'm trying to block it out.
Because frankly,
at this point, I don't care.
My focus really needs
to be Chloe and her solo.
ABBY: You're gonna go and you're gonna
look down at the audience,
and you're gonna look
where the judges are sitting.
You're gonna figure it out
because trained you to do that.
All right, It's your turn. You're up.
Over here, let's run through it once.
Let's talk about this.
"'20s Scat" is really
the most mature piece
Nia has ever performed before.
And I'm nervous.
Can she pull it off?
ABBY: Remember,
this is the road to nationals.
We are on our way. Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
CHLOE: I'm just a little bit nervous
because the LA girls
are really fierce here.
But I won't let that stand in my way.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
to the iHollywood Dance stage,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
this is this Chloe performing
to "Glitz and glamour."
("Glitz and Glamour"
by Alyson Greenfield playing)
SINGER: ♪ All I need is friends ♪
♪ But I don't really have them ♪
♪ Okay, I mean, I really have them ♪
♪ I just don't have them where I am ♪
♪ It's because of my job ♪
♪ I travel around a lot ♪
♪ And I don't exactly... ♪
(cheering)
ABBY: The very first set
of turns she bobbles.
And then suddenly
she nailed like five turns.
By the end of this number,
they're never gonna remember
the beginning.
SINGER: ♪ I got no, I ain't got no ♪
♪ I ain't got no glitz and glamour ♪
♪ I ain't got no ♪
(applause)
CHRISTI: I think that there were
parts of Chloe's dance
that were brilliant.
And there were parts that need work.
If she would have had another week,
I think that dance
would have been amazing.
NIA: I'm very nervous about doing my solo.
It's really difficult dancing to scatting
because there's no beat.
I hope I can pull it off.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
this is the Nia,
performing to "'20s Scat."
(applause)
(woman scatting)
ABBY: Nia is right on the money.
She's fabulous.
It's simple.
It's clean.
She does everything she's supposed to do.
And at the end, she makes it her own.
(laughter)
(singer vocalizing)
(applause)
HOLLY: Nia is a mini goddess on stage.
She has the audience
eating out of the palm of her hands.
And I think Josephine Baker
would have been very proud.
(cheering)
KELLY: Good job.
-Good job. It was great.
-It was nice.
Hey, hey, hey, good job.
Good job.
I loved it.
Chloe, I think some things
are really, really good.
And I think some things were not so good.
That's not the way to go to nationals.
Mackenzie, are you ready?
Cover that stage.
Make sure you get out there far enough.
All right, let's go, let's go, let's go.
(tense music playing)
MACKENZIE: My solo is gonna go well,
because my song's called "Hollywood"
and we're in Hollywood.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
this is Mackenzie.
And she'll be performing to "Hollywood."
("In Hollywood"
by 21st Century Girl playing)
SINGER: ♪ Spinning round in circles
round in circles in my mind ♪
♪ I just close my eyes
and I can see that perfect sign ♪
♪ Countdown to adventure, new direction ♪
♪ Take me to my favorite place... ♪
MELISSA: So I'm watching
Mackenzie do her solo.
She comes out with so much energy,
and I think she's doing great.
SINGER: ♪ The sun shines hot ♪
♪ And life's over the top in Hollywood ♪
♪ In Hollywood, Hollywood ♪
♪ Any time we want fun ♪
♪ It's a town that's ready to play ♪
♪ Oh, night or day ♪
(cheering)
Yay, Mackenzie!
ABBY: She did a great job.
Her legs were straight.
Her feet were pointed.
She remembered the choreography.
What more can I ask for?
Great job!
(laughs)
ABBY: Nice job.
Kenzie, you listened to your music.
And every time you got a little bit ahead,
you stopped and you slowed down.
And the hand walks were good.
Yeah.
So you guys need to get the lipstick off,
tone down the blush,
and get your costumes on. Let's go.
(indistinct chatter)
ABBY: Hey, guys, I need everybody dressed.
I haven't even said who's in the dance
and who isn't in the dance.
I haven't even spaced everybody yet.
KAYA: The only reason
I think that Abby won't just replace Paige
and put Nicaya in this number
is because Abby's just scared
that Nicaya's gonna go right in there
and blow her dancers out of the water.
She claims it takes years
and years and years
to get on the level
with her elite dancers.
Well, Nicaya got it in 24 hours.
Have you asked her, like,
recently what she's thinking?
Ask her.
Just say, I don't want my feelings
to be hurt at the very last minute.
If you don't think
I should be in this number right now,
then you can just tell me that.
NICAYA: If I would have
traveled all the way to LA
and she didn't let me dance,
that really would make me feel really sad.
This has been an honor getting this far.
But I want to really know
if I'm going to be doing this routine or--
ABBY: I'm deciding right now.
Right this second, I'm looking at it.
Let's go.
Our group number is coming up next.
Who's gonna do it, Nicaya or Paige?
I have yet to make the decision.
So I'm gonna run the number one more time.
Whoever is not keeping up is out.
That's my final decision.
I came here to win.
Make the head move.
(tense music playing)
KELLY: Here we are in the dressing room.
Everybody is dressed
and ready to go on stage
and she's still playing mind games.
Abby, just tell us what you're doing.
Is Paige dancing in the dance or not?
Because in five minutes
they're gonna be on stage.
And you have my daughter so confused,
she doesn't know
whether she's coming or going.
ABBY: Wait, what is she doing
with those pigeon-toed feet?
I don't think you're there.
They've done the number
over and over in the dressing room,
and nobody's impressing me very much.
Do I take a chance on Paige,
who is still recovering,
or do I take a chance
on the new girl, Nicaya,
who's yet to prove herself?
Who's going to dance in the group number?
It's a tough choice.
(tense music playing)
Make the head move.
KELLY: If I traveled
3,000 miles with Paige
and Abby doesn't let her dance,
I am gonna flip.
(intense music playing)
We're all doing the dance. Let's go.
You didn't come 3,000 miles
to sit on your butt.
Everybody out there. Let's go.
CHRISTI: If letting Nicaya be in the dance
is what allowed Paige to be in the dance,
then so be it,
because she is a member of this team
and deserved it.
Listen to me.
I am putting you in this dance because...
...you're telling me you're ready.
Do not go out there and make a mistake.
Understood?
Yes.
Yes?
I'm really worried about Paige.
Can you physically do it?
I'm not so sure.
I need to see it full out, Paige.
When we walk out of here, game faces.
Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
NICAYA: I'm really nervous
to do the group dance.
I really want to show Miss Abby
that I deserve to be on this team.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
Abby Lee Dance Company,
performing to "I See the Kite Flying."
ABBY: The last time we did a haunting,
controversial spoken word number
was "Where Have All the Children Gone?"
And it won hands down.
That's what it needs to be again today.
We're getting ready for nationals.
It's overall first place or nothing.
("I See The Kite Flying"
by Joseph Kerschbaum playing)
(spoken word) The sky was so blue
That it wasn't blue any longer.
Every time that sky comes back
into my mind,
the colors shift.
The blue gets bluer
and the horizon widens.
CHRISTI: When the words
starts speaking for the group dance,
because there is no music,
the girls start crawling around
on the floor and, like,
punching themselves in the face.
And I thought, well, okay,
at least you're being the best
that you can be.
(spoken word)
But my feet were hard on the ground.
At that moment, color splashed
into my black and white life.
Standing, the wind in my face,
I lost myself.
And just for a minute,
it only had to do with me.
As my kite rose higher
into that impossible blue,
I thought about
how we never flew kites together.
(cheering and applause)
ABBY: The group number went well.
Paige and Nicaya both did an okay job.
Who was better?
I don't know.
Neither one of them really pulled my eye.
But today, that was a good thing.
(upbeat music playing)
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: We're gonna get started
with our award ceremony.
We have the top three Mini Oscar Solos.
Starting in at third place,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
act number 51, "Hollywood."
(applause)
MELISSA: Mackenzie came in third.
I was actually surprised.
But a little girl did lyrical.
Typically, that does better
than an acro dance.
ANNOUNCER: Next up
is your high-scoring Junior Tony Solo.
We're gonna start in 10th place,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
number 37, "'20s Scat."
(applause)
HOLLY: The idea of Nia placing
in the top 10 with this number,
she might as well have been
doing Shakespeare on stage.
That's the caliber
of the maturity of this piece.
Moving along to fifth place,
in the genre of contemporary,
from Abby Lee Dance Company,
act number 22,
"Glitz and glamour."
(applause)
ABBY: I'm disappointed,
Nia 10th and Chloe fifth?
They needed to be better.
They needed to be stronger.
10th and 5th
are not going to cut it at nationals.
ANNOUNCER: Moving along
to our top Junior Oscar Small Groups,
in second place,
this is in the genre of lyrical,
act number 72, "Believe."
(cheering)
And drumroll please for your
top scoring Junior Oscar Small Group.
Your first place winner
is in the genre of contemporary.
And from Abby Lee Dance
Company, act number 70...
-(applause)
-ANNOUNCER: ..."I See the Kite Flying."
ABBY: When it was all said
and done, the group routine,
and we all know the group comes first,
was the overall high-scoring winners
in the entire competition.
The Abby Lee Dance Company
is going to leave California victorious.
ANNOUNCER:
And who choreographed this routine?
Miss Abby Lee.
ANNOUNCER: Let's give it
around of applause for our top 3
-Junior Oscar Small Groups.
-(applause)
-(cheering)
-Girls!
-Congratulations.
-High five.
Congratulations for you.
ABBY: Yay, congratulations, Chloe,
for making the top five.
Congratulations, Nia,
for making the top 10.
Thank you.
Nicaya, you and your mom
are being pretty quiet.
You had a lot to say on the microphone.
KAYA: What do you mean?
ABBY: This goes to the rest of you.
You're gonna let the new girl walk in
and get the microphone and get to speak?
Don't let the new kid come in
and push you out of the way.
You did the same thing with Paige today.
You're threatening
to replace her with somebody else.
-Why y'all keep saying replace?
-Why does she need to do that?
We're not coming to replace nobody.
-She just wants to be part of the team.
-I'm not talking to you. Thank you.
But when you refer to me or my child,
-then it puts me in the conversation.
-KELLY: I'm not talking to you.
What did you say, Abby. I'm sorry.
-Somebody is talking.
-KAYA: (indistinct)
Kaya was talking.
I don't want to even use your name.
That's why I keep saying her.
I got a name I want
to call you, too, not your own,
but I'm trying to be respectful.
You just jumped down on me
like I'm trying to invade this team
and do something.
And it's no different
from what all of you are doing.
As a sister, I would think
you would respect that,
because there ain't a lot of chances
for Black women out here nowadays.
I would think that you would have my back.
Do not--do not take my ethnicity
and make me a poster child for whatever.
I choose to speak when I,
Holly Hatcher-Frazier,
Dr. Holly to everyone in this room,
has something to say.
KAYA: I don't know
how you work with these parents.
You called every one of us liars, haters.
Hater--yeah,
you are some--you're some haters.
-That's a name.
-I call it like I see it.
It's the truth, y'all.
Or liars, you're liars, especially you.
Oh, yeah, okay.
KAYA: You are phony as hell.
So are you.
-I'm not--you know what?
-KAYA: From what I see,
-you're fake.
-CHRISTI: I'm not phony at all.
Who I am is exactly who I come across as.
Yeah, a bitch, that's what you are.
And I know you own it.
You don't know a thing, bitch.
I be that bitch.
-I own it.
-CHRISTI: Don't let the door hit
your (bleep) out then.
You wanna watch your mouth because
I ain't the rest of these dance mamas.
I'm not a doctor like Holly do.
I'm from the hood.
Believe that.
JILL: Abby, are you gonna let this happen?
-I can't--
-KAYA: You're bitter!
-I don't use foul language.
-You're darn right we're bitter.
KAYA: I don't know
how you work with these parents.
(tense music playing)